6 Minute English from bbclearningenglish.com
BBC六分钟英语

Hello, this is 6 Minute English from BBC Learning English. I'm Pippa.
这里是BBC六分钟英语

And I'm Neil.
我是皮帕，我是尼尔

Now, Neil, have you ever wanted to be a musician?
你有没有想过成为音乐人

Oh yes, Pippa. I still want to be a musician. I've been playing my guitar since I was 14.
我从14岁就开始弹吉他

Wow. Well, maybe one day you'll manage it.
或许有一天你能实现

Who knows? What about you?
谁知道你的情况呢

I don't think I'd like to be a musician. I think it would be a bit stressful,
我不觉得想成为音乐人

especially if you had lots of fans and were really successful.
尤其是有很多粉丝且非常成功的话

Yeah, I wonder what life as a musician is actually like.
我想知道音乐人的生活到底什么样

We'll be finding that out in this programme as we hear from some people around the UK
通过来自英国各地的声音

who would like to become successful musicians and will even listen to some of their music too.
那些想成为成功音乐人并会听他们音乐的人

But first, I have a question for you, Neil.
我有个问题要问你

In the UK, we have a weekly chart of the best-selling songs in the country
我们每周都有国家最畅销歌曲排行榜

and the top-selling song is called the number one.
本周冠军单曲叫《第一名》

But which musical artist do you think has had the most UK number one songs?
但你觉得哪位音乐人拥有最多

Is it A. The Beatles, B. Ed Sheeran or C. Elvis Presley?
B艾德·希兰还是C埃尔维斯·普雷斯利

Oh, well, I think that's easy. It must be surely The Beatles.
肯定是披头士乐队

Well, I'll reveal the answer at the end of the programme.
现在节目结尾我会揭晓答案

Now, getting a number one song is a dream for many musicians,
获得冠军单曲是许多音乐人的梦想

but if you want to become a musician, where do you start?
但如果你想成为音乐人

I grew up in a really rich music scene in St Ives.
我在圣伊夫斯长大，那里音乐氛围浓厚

I was going to open mics from the age of about eleven.
我大概11岁就开始参加开放麦活动

This is Bailey. She lives in St Ives in Cornwall on the south-west coast of England.
她住在英格兰西南部的康沃尔圣伊夫斯

She says she was going to open mic nights from a young age.
她说从小就开始参加开放麦之夜

And mic nights are events where anyone can sing or play music.
开放麦之夜是任何人都可唱歌或演奏音乐的活动

Bailey talked about her life as a musician to BBC Learning English programme,
贝利向BBC讲述了她作为音乐人的生活

My Song, My Home.
我的家

I would go to these songwriter's circles at the Kettle and Wink
我会去茶壶和眨眼咖啡馆的作曲人圈子

on, like, a Friday night after school,
就像放学后的周五夜晚

where I'd be like the youngest person by, like, fifty years,
那里我可能是最年轻的人，足足大五十岁

but I'd sit in a circle of a bunch of old men
但我还是会和一群老人围坐一圈

and they'd play James Taylor and Carol King and the Eagles
泰勒和卡罗尔

and lots of 70s music and I guess that's influenced me massively.
我想这对我影响巨大

But I guess, you know, everyone kind of took me under the wing growing up.
但我想大家都会照顾我

When she was younger, Bailey went to songwriter's circles.
贝利参加了作曲人圈子

These are meetings for people interested in writing their own music.
这是为音乐创作爱好者举办的聚会

Bailey remembers sitting with a bunch of old men.
贝利回忆起与一群老人围坐

A bunch is an informal way to talk about a group of people.
"一群"是形容人群的非正式说法

The older men in the group would play music from the 1970s
圈子里的老人会演奏七十年代的音乐

and Bailey says they took her under their wing.
贝利说他们收留了我

If you take somebody under your wing, you decide to protect them or guide them.
意味着保护或引导他们成长

Let's meet another musician, Josh.
让我们认识另一位音乐人

So I learnt my first proper song on guitar when I was about thirteen.
我第一次在吉他上学会完整歌曲

I literally started busking the moment I could kind of do that.
我几乎立刻开始街头表演

Josh lives in London and is a busker.
乔什住在伦敦，是一名街头艺人

This means that he performs on the street or in public places to earn money.
这意味着他在街头或公共场所演出

Busking is a common way for musicians to make money and perform to more people.
街头表演是音乐人创收和接触更多观众的常见方式

And as Josh told BBC Learning English programme My Song, My Home,
正如乔什告诉BBC

it can help musicians to get new opportunities.
这能帮助音乐人获得新机会

It's been kind of like my main earner that's kept me going for the last ten or so years.
支撑我度过了过去十年

From that it's then got me various different opportunities.
这为我带来了各种机会

It's got me all my gigs, got me all my connections, so I owe a lot to busking.
所以我有很多收获

Busking is Josh's main earner. It's his main source of money.
乔什的主要收入来源

He says that busking has got him all his gigs and connections.
他说街头表演带来了所有演出和人脉

Gigs are musical concerts and it's an informal slang word.
这是一个非正式俚语

Josh says he owes a lot to busking.
乔什说他很感谢街头表演

If you owe a lot to someone or something, you have success or happiness because of that personal thing.
因为那个个人因素

So would you like to listen to some of Josh's music, Neil?
那你愿意听一听乔什的音乐吗尼尔

Of course I would.
当然愿意啊

Well, here's a bit of his song That Side of the Wall,
这是他的一段歌曲

which he performed for BBC Learning English programme My Song, My Home.
他在BBC表演过

Wow, Josh is pretty good, isn't he? I'd love to hear more.
哇

Well, you can find performances by the musicians in the series on our website, bbclanningenglish.com,
哇

and we'll also put a link in the notes below this episode.
我很想多听一些啊

OK, so what about your question, Pippa?
你可以在我们网站上找到系列音乐人的表演

Yes, I asked which artist had the most number one songs in the UK,
我们也会在本期下方留言中添加链接

OK, so what about your question, Pippa?
那你的问题呢

Yes, I asked which artist had the most number one songs in the UK charts,
哪位歌手在英国榜单上夺冠次数最多

The Beatles, Ed Sheeran or Elvis Presley, and you said The Beatles, Neil.
艾德·希兰还是埃尔维斯·普雷斯利

But the answer is actually Elvis Presley.
但正确答案其实是

He's had 21 number one songs and The Beatles have had 18.
他拥有两首冠军单曲

Really? Well, that's OK. I love The King as well.
而披头士乐队确实很出色

OK, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this musical episode.
让我们回顾本期音乐单元学到的词汇

Starting with open mic nights, events where anyone can sing or play music.
任何人都可以唱歌或演奏音乐的活动

Songwriter circles are meetings for people interested in writing their own music.
创作圈是音乐人交流的聚会

A bunch of people is a group of people.
一群人指一群人的集合

The expression take someone under your wing means to protect or guide someone.
短语'收留某人'

Busking is performing in a public place for money,
街头表演者是为赚钱在公共场所演出

and a busker is someone who performs on the street for money.
而街头艺人是街头赚钱表演者

Your main earner is your main source of income.
主要收入来源是主要经济来源

Gigs are musical concerts.
演出是音乐演唱会

And the expression to owe a lot to someone or something
‘对某人或某事感激不尽’的意思是获得成功或幸福

means to have success or happiness because of that personal thing.
‘对某人或某事感激不尽’的意思是获得成功或幸福

Once again, our six minutes are up,
再一次

but you can find My Song, My Home on our website, bbclearningenglish.com.
BBC学习英语

Watch the songs and sing along and learn more about the vocabulary in the lyrics.
观看歌曲并跟唱，学习更多词汇和歌词

We'll see you again soon for some more trending topics and useful vocabulary.
获取更多热门话题和实用词汇

Bye for now.
现在再见

Goodbye.
再见

Six Minute English from bbclearningenglish.com
来自BBC学习英语的六分钟英语
